Quickstart update (#1444)
inmanta/inmanta: docs/quickstart.rst

This tutorial gets you started with the Inmanta orchestration tool.

Inmanta is intended to manage complex infrastructures, often in the cloud or other virtualized environments.
In this guide, we go for a less complex setup: install the Drupal CMS on two VM-like containers.
First, we use Docker to set up a basic environment with two empty VM-like containers, an Inmanta server and a postgres server.
Then, we use Inmanta to install Drupal on these VM-like containers.

.. note::

>     This is meant to get an example Inmanta set up and running quickly to experiment with.

Author: resolved

>     It is not recommended to run this setup in production, as it might lead to instabilties in the long term.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    It is not recommended to run this setup in production, as it might lead to instabilities in the long term.
```

To quickly get started with Inmanta, use Docker Compose to set up an environment to host the Inmanta server and some machines to be managed.
Before starting this tutorial, first `install Docker on your machine <https://docs.docker.com/v17.09/engine/installation/>`_.
Next `install Docker Compose on your machine <https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/>`_.

Then, grab the Docker quickstart from our Git repository.

.. code-block:: sh

    git clone https://github.com/inmanta/quickstart-docker.git
    cd quickstart-docker

Now that we have the needed docker files, we will need to get the `Inmanta quickstart project <https://github.com/inmanta/quickstart/blob/docker/project.yml>`_
itself and checkout the docker branch of the quickstart project:

.. code-block:: sh

    git clone https://github.com/inmanta/quickstart.git --branch docker quickstart-project

The quickstart project can now be found under the newly created `quickstart-project` directory.
It will be the basis for this quickstart.
The ``quickstart-project`` directory will also be shared with the Inmanta server container
(mounted to ``/home/inmanta/quickstart-project``).
We will come back to the files in this repository 

> Finaly, have Docker Compose deploy the quickstart environment:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally, have Docker Compose deploy the quickstart environment:
```

.. code-block:: sh

    docker-compose up

Docker Compose will set up the Inmanta server, a postgres server and two VM-like containers to experiment on.
When Docker Compose is done deploying and Inmanta server is running, you will be able to open the dashboard at http://127.0.0.1:8888.
When you see the following output, the Inmanta server is ready to be used:

.. code-block:: sh

    inmanta_quickstart_server | inmanta.protocol.rest    DEBUG   Start REST transport
    inmanta_quickstart_server | inmanta                  INFO    Server startup complete

.. note::

    docker-compose will lock the current terminal and use it for output from all 4 containers.
    You will need to open a new terminal to continue with this quickstart

To get an interactive shell on the Inmanta server (this will be needed later):

.. code-block:: sh

    docker exec -it "inmanta_quickstart_server" bash

> The rest of the quickstart guide assumes commands are executed from the root path of the quickstart-docker git repository, unless noted otherwise.

Reviewer: I think this should be emphasized a bit more

Author: resolved

This tutorial gets you started with the Inmanta orchestration tool.

Inmanta is intended to manage complex infrastructures, often in the cloud or other virtualized environments.
In this guide, we go for a less complex setup: install the Drupal CMS on two VM-like containers.
First, we use Docker to set up a basic environment with two empty VM-like containers, an Inmanta server and a postgres server.

> Then, we use Inmanta to install Drupal on these VM-like containers.

Author: resolved

Finally, have Docker Compose deploy the quickstart environment:

.. code-block:: sh

    docker-compose up

Docker Compose will set up the Inmanta server, a postgres server and two VM-like containers to experiment on.
When Docker Compose is done deploying and the Inmanta server is running, you will be able to open the dashboard at http://127.0.0.1:8888.
When you see the following output, the Inmanta server is ready to be used:

.. code-block:: sh

    inmanta_quickstart_server | inmanta.protocol.rest    DEBUG   Start REST transport
    inmanta_quickstart_server | inmanta                  INFO    Server startup complete

.. note::

    docker-compose will lock the current terminal and use it for output from all 4 containers.
    You will need to open a new terminal to continue with this quickstart

To get an interactive shell on the Inmanta server (this will be needed later):

.. code-block:: sh

    docker exec -it "inmanta_quickstart_server" bash

.. note::

    The rest of the quickstart guide assumes commands are executed from the root path of the quickstart-docker git repository, unless noted otherwise.

> Breaking down/Reseting the quickstart-docker environment

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Breaking down/Resetting the quickstart-docker environment
```

.. _cli:

> Breaking down/Reseting the quickstart-docker environment

Author: Resolved

_________________________________________________________

To fully clean up or reset the environment, run the following commands:

.. code-block:: sh

    docker-compose down

>     docker volume prune

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    docker volume prune -f
```
let's make life easier for the copy-pasters out there

Single machine deployment using the CLI
=======================================

> An Inmanta project bundles modules that contain configuration information.

Author: Removed the offending line.

> A project is nothing more than a directory with a project.yml file,

Author: resolved

    * The *os* attribute defines which operating system this server runs. This is used to select the right tools (yum or dnf or apt).
    * The *ip* attribute is the IP address of this host. At this moment we define this attribute manually, later in this tutorial we let Inmanta discover this automatically.

* Line 13 deploys an Apache server on our host.
* Line 14 deploys a Mysql server on our host and removes it's anonymous users.
* Line 17 defines the name (hostname) of the web application.
* Lines 17-18 define a database for our Drupal website.
* Lines 19-21 define the actual Drupal application.

Deploy the configuration model
-------------------------------

To deploy the project, we must first register it with the management server by creating a project and an environment. A project is a collection of related environments. (e.g. development, testing, production, qa,...)
An environment is associated with a branch in a git repository. This allows the server to recompile the model when the environment changes.

Connect to the terminal of the server-container:

> .. code-block:: sh

Author: What do you mean by "not interpreted correctly"?
Is there an error?
It's rendered correctly on my machine and in the online docs, so I'm unsure how to resolve this.

    docker exec -it "inmanta_quickstart_server" bash

Then, create the inmanta project and environment:

.. code-block:: sh

    cd /home/inmanta/quickstart-project
    inmanta-cli project create -n test
    inmanta-cli environment create -n quickstart-env -p test -r https://github.com/inmanta/quickstart.git -b docker --save

.. note::

    The ``--save`` option tells ``inmanta-cli`` to store the environment config in the ``.inmanta`` file. The compiler uses this file to find the server and to export to the right environment.

> Finaly compile the project and deploy it:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally compile the project and deploy it:
```

Multi-machine deployment using the CLI
=======================================

> The real power of Inmanta becomes apperant when managing more than one machine. In this section we will

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The real power of Inmanta becomes apparent when managing more than one machine. In this section we will
```

    import drupal

    # define the machine we want to deploy Drupal on
    vm1=ip::Host(name="vm1", os=redhat::centos7, ip="172.28.0.4", remote_agent=true, remote_user="root")
    vm2=ip::Host(name="vm2", os=redhat::centos7, ip="172.28.0.5", remote_agent=true, remote_user="root")

    # add a mysql and apache http server
    web_server=apache::Server(host=vm1)
    mysql_server=mysql::Server(host=vm2)

    # deploy drupal in that virtual host
    name=web::Alias(hostname="localhost")
    db=mysql::Database(server=mysql_server, name="drupal_test", user="drupal_test", password="Str0ng-P433w0rd")
    drupal::Application(name=name, container=web_server, database=db, admin_user="admin",
                        admin_password="test", admin_email="admin@example.com", site_name="localhost")

> On line 11 the definition of the new machine is added. On line 16 the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
On line 11 the definition of the new machine is added. On line 15 the
```

.. code-block:: sh

    mkdir ./quickstart-project/libs/{lamp,lamp/model}
    touch ./quickstart-project/libs/lamp/model/_init.cf
    touch ./quickstart-project/libs/lamp/module.yml

.. note::

>     It is normal if you run in to permission errors at this point if you followed the cli version of the quickstart.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    It is normal if you run into permission errors at this point if you followed the cli version of the quickstart.
```

> The composition

Reviewer 2: Line 448 should refer to line 15 in the code snippet instead of to line 9

Author: resolved

> The composition

Reviewer 2: Lines 453-454 seem to be describing a bidirectional relation, which this is not

Reviewer 2: created issue #1446

Deploy the changes
==========================

Deploy the changes as before, by connection to the servers terminal.
Nothing will change because the generated configuration should be exactly the same.

.. code-block:: sh

> 

Reviewer 2: Should line 495 link to another section? It does not for me, also not on docs.inmanta.com. You haven't changed it, I know, but we should set this straight.

Author: linked to a file that had it's name changed. resolved.
